Update package manager instructions with community-hosted repos (#42022)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/install-kubeadm.md

* Kubeadm-specific [version skew policy](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/#version-skew-policy)

{{< note >}}
Kubernetes has two different package repositories starting from August 2023.
The Google-hosted repository is deprecated and it's being replaced with the
Kubernetes (community-owned) package repositories. The Kubernetes project strongly
recommends using the Kubernetes community-owned package repositories, because the
project plans to stop publishing packages to the Google-hosted repository in the future.

There are some important considerations for the Kubernetes package repositories:

- The Kubernetes package repositories contain packages beginning with those
  Kubernetes versions that were still under support when the community took
  over the package builds. This means that anything before v1.24.0 will only be
  available in the Google-hosted repository.
- There's a dedicated package repository for each Kubernetes minor version.
  When upgrading to to a different minor release, you must bear in mind that
  the package repository details also change.

To learn more, you can read the official announcement ["pkgs.k8s.io: Introducing

> Kubernetes community-owned package repositories"](/2023/08/15/pkgs-k8s-io-introduction/).

Author: @sftim I see, it's missing `/blog`. Is `/blog/2023/08/15/pkgs-k8s-io-introduction/` a correct URL given that the release date is correct? @ramrodo Can you please confirm if we want to do it on 2023-08-15 or earlier?

> Kubernetes community-owned package repositories"](/2023/08/15/pkgs-k8s-io-introduction/).

Author: Blog post link changed to `/blog/2023/08/15/pkgs-k8s-io-introduction/`

> Kubernetes community-owned package repositories"](/blog/2023/08/15/pkgs-k8s-io-introduction/).

Reviewer: As it seems the blog has been scheduled for 22 August
```suggestion
Kubernetes community-owned package repositories"](/blog/2023/08/22/pkgs-k8s-io-introduction/).
```

Reviewer 2: I think it makes sense to publish that on the 15th, and I'll see if release comms agree.

* Kubernetes [version and version-skew policy](/docs/setup/release/version-skew-policy/)
* Kubeadm-specific [version skew policy](/docs/setup/production-environment/tools/kubeadm/create-cluster-kubeadm/#version-skew-policy)

{{< warning >}}
Kubernetes has two different package repositories starting from August 2023.
The Google-hosted repository is considered deprecated and we will stop

> publishing packages to that repository starting with Kubernetes 1.30.0.

Reviewer 2: Is this an absolute commitment, or just likely? Only say when we'll stop if we're 100% committed.

Author: @sftim This is something to verify with leads but most of them are not available this week. I'll make sure to follow up on this early next week.

Author: I removed the timeline but still left a note that this will happen in the future.

Author: We decided that Kubernetes 1.29 is going to be cutover. https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CCK68P2Q2/p1691085627058939

the Kubernetes community-owned package repositories going forward as we'll stop
publishing packages to the Google-hosted repository in the future.

There are some important considerations for the Kubernetes package repositories:

- The Kubernetes package repositories contain only packages for Kubernetes

>   versions starting with v1.24.0. Earlier versions are available only in the

Author: > How feasible is it to add in the older packages? That'd be nice context to know (is it impossible, or just effort we haven't staffed?)

It's a manual process that takes a lot of time. I think it's safe to estimate around 45 minutes to 1 hour for one patch release in the best case. I think that given the current state of tooling and not being able to automate this properly, only doing this for supported releases at this time is the best we can do.

  Google-hosted repository.

> - There's a dedicated package repository for each Kubernetes minor version.
>   Please take this into the consideration when upgrading to the next minor
>   release.

Reviewer 2: The original text is more idiomatic English. I like two separate sentences. Although, in tech docs we avoid “Please”.
```suggestion
There's a dedicated package repository for each Kubernetes minor version.
When upgrading to to a different minor release, you must bear in mind that
the package repository details also change.
```

We recommend checking out our official announcement ["pkgs.k8s.io: Introducing
Kubernetes community-owned package repositories"](TBD) for more information

> about the new Kubernetes package repositories.

Reviewer 2: Try something like:
```diff
-We recommend checking out our official announcement ["pkgs.k8s.io: Introducing
-Kubernetes community-owned package repositories"](TBD) for more information
-about the new Kubernetes package repositories.
+To learn more, you can read the official announcement ["pkgs.k8s.io: Introducing
+Kubernetes community-owned package repositories"](TBD).
```

{{< /note >}}

{{< tabs name="k8s_install" >}}
{{% tab name="Debian-based distributions" %}}

### Kubernetes package repositories {#dpkg-k8s-package-repo}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

These instructions are for Kubernetes {{< skew currentVersion >}}.

```

1. Update the `apt` package index and install packages needed to use the Kubernetes `apt` repository:

   ```shell
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl
   ```

2. Download the public signing key for the Kubernetes package repositories. The same signing key is used for all repositories so you can disregard the version in the URL:

   ```shell
   curl -fsSL https://pkgs.k8s.io/core:/stable:/{{< param "version" >}}/deb/Release.key | sudo gpg --dearmor -o /etc/apt/keyrings/kubernetes-apt-keyring.gpg
   ```

3. Add the appropriate Kubernetes `apt` repository:

   ```shell
   echo 'deb https://pkgs.k8s.io/core:/stable:/{{< param "version" >}}/deb/ /' | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
   ```

4. Update `apt` package index, install kubelet, kubeadm and kubectl, and pin their version:

   ```shell
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install -y kubelet kubeadm kubectl
   sudo apt-mark hold kubelet kubeadm kubectl
   ```

{{< note >}}

> In releases older than Debian 12 and Ubuntu 22.04, `/etc/apt/keyrings` does not exist by default.
> You can create this directory if you need to, making it world-readable but writeable only by admins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In releases older than Debian 12 and Ubuntu 22.04, `/etc/apt/keyrings` does not exist by default;
you can create it by running `sudo mkdir -m 755 /etc/apt/keyrings`
```
(to match recent changes to _main_)

{{< /note >}}

### Google-hosted package repository (deprecated) {#dpkg-google-package-repo}

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

These instructions are for Kubernetes {{< skew currentVersion >}}.

```

> ### Google-hosted repository (Deprecated)

Author: > Should we change the name of the file within /etc/apt/keyrings? Eg to /etc/apt/keyrings/kubernetes-deprecated-apt-keyring.gpg

I'd avoid doing this so that we have universal file location for the old key for all users in case we ever need to get back to it, e.g. to remove it if needed. I used a new location for the new key, I think that's kind of a better approach.

   sudo apt-get install -y kubelet kubeadm kubectl
   sudo apt-mark hold kubelet kubeadm kubectl
   ```

{{< note >}}

> In releases older than Debian 12 and Ubuntu 22.04, `/etc/apt/keyrings` does not exist by default.
> You can create this directory if you need to, making it world-readable but writeable only by admins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In releases older than Debian 12 and Ubuntu 22.04, `/etc/apt/keyrings` does not exist by default;
you can create it by running `sudo mkdir -m 755 /etc/apt/keyrings`
```
(to match recent changes to _main_)

{{< /note >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Red Hat-based distributions" %}}

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### {{% heading "prerequisites" %}} {#prerequisites-rpm}
```
(untested)

Another good option: go up to line 19 and add some details there, maybe with a link to a heading later in the file.

Author: I dropped this paragraph, I think it should be good enough without it, but let me know if you have any objections to this.

> 1. Set SELinux in the permissive mode:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Set SELinux to `permissive` mode:
```

```shell
# Set SELinux in permissive mode (effectively disabling it)
sudo setenforce 0
sudo sed -i 's/^SELINUX=enforcing$/SELINUX=permissive/' /etc/selinux/config
```

> {{< note >}}

Reviewer 2: This is relevant to security. Use a `caution` callout.

- Setting SELinux in permissive mode by running `setenforce 0` and `sed ...` effectively disables it.

> This is required to allow containers to access the host filesystem, which is needed by pod networks for example.
> You have to do this until SELinux support is improved in the kubelet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This is required to allow containers to access the host filesystem; for example, some cluster
  network plugins require that.
  You have to do this until SELinux support is improved in the kubelet.
```

- You can leave SELinux enabled if you know how to configure it but it may require settings that are not supported by kubeadm.
{{< /note >}}

### Kubernetes package repositories {#rpm-k8s-package-repo}

1. Add the Kubernetes `yum` repository:

```shell

> cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo

Reviewer 2: Optionally:
```suggestion
# This overwrites any existing configuration in /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo
cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo
```

[kubernetes]
name=Kubernetes
baseurl=https://pkgs.k8s.io/core:/stable:/{{< param "version" >}}/rpm/
enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://pkgs.k8s.io/core:/stable:/{{< param "version" >}}/rpm/repodata/repomd.xml.key
exclude=kubelet kubeadm kubectl cri-tools kubernetes-cni
EOF
```

3. Install kubelet, kubeadm and kubectl, and enable kubelet to ensure it's automatically started on startup:

```shell
sudo yum install -y kubelet kubeadm kubectl --disableexcludes=kubernetes
sudo systemctl enable --now kubelet
```

### Google-hosted package repository (deprecated) {#rpm-google-package-repo}

1. Add the Google-hosted `yum` repository:

```shell

> cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo

Reviewer 2: Optionally:
```suggestion
# This overwrites any existing configuration in /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo
cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/yum.repos.d/kubernetes.repo
```

Author: Added to other relevant documents as well.

[kubernetes]
name=Kubernetes

> baseurl=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/repos/kubernetes-el7-\$basearch

Reviewer 2: I prefer to specify `\$basearch` - it's a nice clue for people scripting things.

enabled=1
gpgcheck=1
gpgkey=https://packages.cloud.google.com/yum/doc/rpm-package-key.gpg

> exclude=kubelet kubeadm kubectl

Reviewer 2: Maybe comment this line to explain why we configure excludes.

Author: Added it above the code block.

EOF
```

3. Install kubelet, kubeadm and kubectl, and enable kubelet to ensure it's automatically started on startup:

```shell
sudo yum install -y kubelet kubeadm kubectl --disableexcludes=kubernetes
sudo systemctl enable --now kubelet
```

{{< note >}}

> If the `baseurl` fails because your Red Hat-based distribution cannot interpret `basearch`, replace `\$basearch` with your computer's architecture.

Reviewer 2: Tweaked:
```suggestion
If the `baseurl` fails because your RPM-based distribution cannot interpret `$basearch`, replace `\$basearch` with your computer's architecture.
```
